When Parliament rose for the winter recess last week, there were more than the usual fond last looks. For when members of Parliament and Senators return in late January, it will not be to the House of Commons or Senate chambers they have occupied for most of the past century. The Centre Block, which contains both, along with sundry offices and committee rooms, has closed for renovations. The earliest it will reopen: 2030. 
 This is Canada, however, so nobody knows. In fact, nobody seems to know much of anything about the project: not only how long it will take (Public Services and Procurement has already begun backing away from the original 10-year estimate for completion), but how much it will cost (just to move the Commons and Senate into their temporary digs in the West Block and Government Conference Centre, respectively, is estimated to cost over $1 billion; there are no cost estimates as yet for the renovation itself), or even what exactly it entails. 
 The building itself, constructed in 1916-27 after a fire destroyed the original, is part of the mystery: no one knows quite how it was built, or what went into it. Officials explain they will have to get in and gut the place before they can assess what needs to be done to restore it, let alone update it with such mod cons as air conditioning or Wi-Fi. But part of it is, as usual, a problem of governance.Responsibility for the project seems to have been assumed to be a matter between bureaucrats at Public Services and the House of Commons, who took it upon themselves to make decisions on project design, cost etc with little to no input from those affected: MPs, Senators, or staff, let alone the public who will have to pay for it all. 
 Not only has there been no consultation, there is no body formally tasked with conducting it: when the Commons Procedure and House Affairs Committee temporarily assigned itself the role last week, it was very much stepping into a void. Like the renovation itself, the oversight process gives every appearance of being improvised on the fly. 
 The divisions and debates inflaming the country at any given moment are acted out before us in miniature, by players who are more than usually anxious to please us. 
 It’s all a little too symbolic: the renovation of the “people’s house,” the home of our democracy, is proceeding with no budget, no timetable, no plan and only the most rudimentary democratic oversight. The one consolation is that it is likely to get far worse. 
 Assuming MPs now get their hooks into it, and pouring through the breech after them every interest group and activist organization in the country, the whole thing is likely to devolve into the same chaotic tangle of cross-purposes that is the fate of every other attempt at large-scale collective enterprise in this country — Trans Mountain meets the Meech Lake Accord. There are children not yet born, I’d wager, who will be voting in their first election before this is completed, at a cost of God knows how many billions. 
 Most of the early focus, now that the issue has caught public attention, seems to be on changes to the design of the Commons. Rather than the current layout, in which government and opposition MPs sit facing each other behind long rows of desks, asks Policy Options editor Jennifer Ditchburn, “has anyone ever considered whether other designs, such as the horseshoe shape used in Australia and Scotland, might work better?”. 
 It’s a fair question: there’s plenty of research on how the built environment affects behaviour. That’s not necessarily an argument for change, however. Ours is an adversarial system: the government proposes legislation and the opposition criticizes it. It’s natural and proper for the design of the Commons to reinforce that fundamental antagonism, which is why most Westminster-based systems, taking after the Mother of Parliaments, employ it. 
 The whole thing is likely to devolve into the same chaotic tangle of cross-purposes that is the fate of every other attempt at large-scale collective enterprise in this country. 
 Whatever formal business it may transact, Parliament is essentially a kind of theatre. The divisions and debates inflaming the country at any given moment are acted out before us in miniature, by players who are more than usually anxious to please us. The needs of Parliamentary theatre argue for an oppositional layout, as the needs of other types of theatre might argue for a thrust stage or proscenium arch. 
 But to say that Parliament is theatre doesn’t require it to be the sort of tawdry spectacle our House of Commons has become. If design influences behaviour, and it does, and if our MPs behave so much worse than their British counterparts — and they do — it follows we should look to the differences between our respective houses, rather than the similarities. 
 Were I consulted on the shape of the Commons, then, I would not alter the basic configuration. Rather, I would suggest two other changes. One would be to move the two sides of the House closer together: to 2.5 metres, as at Westminster, rather than the current four metres. It is harder to haul off and scream at someone who is, as it were, in your face. 
 And the other? Rip out the desks. Watch the British House of Commons, especially the front benches, government ministers huddled together on theirs, opposition shadow ministers doing the same on theirs. Without desks to hide behind, they are exposed, each shrug or wince or other bit of body language parsed for its meaning. The effect is one part bear pit, one part church pews: this is a place, it suggests, where members gather to talk to one another, however rudely; to hear each other, however resentfully; to deliberate together, not to read or answer their mail or whatever else Canadian MPs get up to when the cameras are off them. 
 Rows of desks are for schoolchildren. Auction them off, and use the proceeds to pay for new benches.