Tesla latest German rival is a fast-moving startup with global ambitions, no combustion-car baggage and a lofty valuation. And its hard-charging founder aims to challenge Elon Musk’s company with a bargain electric car for the masses. 
 Set up by an engineering professor with a track record of successfully developing and selling electric vehicles, e.GO Mobile is ramping up production of a battery-powered compact that will cost about half as much as the Tesla Model 3. 
 But unlike the California pioneer, the German manufacturer expects to generate cash out of the gate. 
 “I’ve needed Tesla as a role model,” Guenther Schuh, e.GO’s founder and the mastermind behind Europe’s best-selling electric van, said inside his factory built on the site a former television-tube plant in Aachen, near the French border. 
 “For so long, no startup or individual entered this shark tank alone, so it was great to get a demonstration of how that might work.”. 
 Initial funding for e.GO came from Schuh’s sale of StreetScooter, a no-frills electric van, to Deutsche Post in 2014. 
 Germany’s mail carrier was looking for an affordable electric vehicle for urban deliveries, and Schuh – the chair of production engineering at RWTH Aachen University, one of Germany’s top technical schools – developed a bare-bones model with no air conditioning or radio and a top speed of less than 80 km/h. 
 The model was a surprise hit, and Deutsche Post has doubled StreetScooter capacity to 20,000 a year and is considering listing the unit. 
 In addition to StreetScooter proceeds, German auto supplier ZF Friedrichshafen invested 135 million euros (US$154 million) in e.GO as part of a project to jointly develop a self-driving minibus. 
 While Tesla is focusing on upscale buyers and offering sports car-like performance, e.GO is taking a utilitarian tack. Its first model, the Life, is a simple urban runabout that looks like a boxy version of the Fiat 500. 
 The four-seater boasts a cheap price for an electric car, but not much else. So far, e.GO has 3,200 pre-orders and isn’t taking more. Deliveries will begin in April, and the plan is to produce 100,000 vehicles annually by 2022—on par with Tesla’s output last year. 
 The no-nonsense specifications of the Life stem from e.GO’s response to offsetting high battery costs and steeper procurement prices than larger rivals. The German manufacturer uses as many off-the-shelf parts as possible—including the drivetrain, which comes from Robert Bosch GmbH, and rear lights that were initially developed for trucks. 
 That saves time and money. Schuh expects the company to generate positive cash flow already next year and be profitable in 2021, in stark contrast to Tesla’s cash-burn issues. 
 The e.GO Werk 1 plant spans some 16,000 square meters – more than the size of two soccer fields – and cost 26 million euros ($40 million) to build, a fraction of the price tag of an ordinary auto factory. 
 To head off Musk’s “production hell” on the Model 3, Schuh is using the unexpected delays caused by supplier tests to fine-tune assembly. For instance, he tweaked a hoisting platform to eliminate the risk of it crushing cars. 
 Expansion beyond Aachen is already in the works, with discussions underway to set up assembly joint ventures in China and Mexico and make battery cells in Germany. 
 Despite the grand ambitions, e.GO’s success ultimately depends on making money on an electric car cheap enough to offset the drawbacks of limited driving ranges and long charging times (as much as 9.8 hours for the Life). Schuh is aware that he’s entering uncharted waters. 
 “I don’t know any carmaker that makes money in this vehicle category,” the lanky, bespectacled professor said. “Especially not if they’re electric.”