Miss something this week? Don't panic. CBC's Marketplace rounds up the consumer and health news you need. 
 Want this in your inbox? Get the Marketplace newsletter every Friday. 
 Are cheaper data plans finally here?. 
 Does $30 a month for one gigabyte of data sound like a deal? Canada's big three telcos have each agreed to offer at least one plan at that price. The CRTC came to the agreement with Bell, Rogers and Telus after ordering the companies to fill the need for low-cost data-only plans. Critics have said the plans telcos originally proposed fail to meet the data needs of low-income people in Canada. 
 Going green this Christmas. 
 It turns out the season of giving is also the worst time for the environment. It's estimated that Canadians toss out 25 per cent more trash over the holidays. But there are ways to have a greener Christmas. Some tips include opting for the plainest wrapping paper, reusing bows and ribbons and avoiding glitter. 
 A lot of the products Canadians buy over Christmas will wind up in the trash. (Shutterstock). 
 Call for medical implants registry. 
 Is your medical device registered? A growing number of countries are promising to do better to track devices like pacemakers and artificial hips after CBC's Implant Files investigation. The international series (including our story on breast implants) revealed that tens of thousands of medical devices were approved for sale with little scientific evidence. In Canada there is only a registry for replacement joints and even that is not mandatory in all provinces. Advocates are now calling for that to change. 
 Facebook knows a lot about you. 
 Even more than you think. A new report in the New York Times alleges Facebook gave some companies, including the Royal Bank of Canada, access to users' private messages without their consent. RBC disputes the reporting, but it raises questions about how much information Facebook gets from your account, including your activity outside the platform. 
 The New York Times reported that Facebook gave some companies more extensive access to users' personal data than it has previously revealed. (Dado Ruvic/Reuters). 
 Lost baggage? You could be entitled to compensation. 
 But only if Canada's proposed passenger bill of rights passes. The federal government just tabled the legislation. Regulations would include compensation for lost luggage and between $400 and $1,000 for delays, depending on why and how long you're left waiting. Consumer and disability rights advocates are concerned the new bill of rights does not go far enough to protect passengers. 
 Transport Canada's new regulations would establish a sliding scale of compensation for flight delays. (Luke MacGregor/Reuters). 
 What else is going on?. 
 A new survey says most Canadian employees are ready to quit their jobs. Among 1,001 Canadians and 1,000 Americans surveyed, 37 per cent said they were either actively or casually looking for a new job, and another 36 per cent said they'd consider a new position if recruited. 
 You should use cash to buy legal cannabis, according to Canada's privacy watchdog. Privacy Commissioner Daniel Therrien says avoiding using credit cards will prevent the collection of personal information. Some Canadians have been barred for life from entering the United States after admitting to using cannabis. 
 Health Canada is taking steps to restrict the amount of alcohol allowed in sugary premixed drinks. The agency says the drinks are becoming a growing risk to public health, especially for young people. 
 This week in recalls. 
 These cauliflower, red leaf lettuce and green leaf lettuce products could be contaminated with E. coli; these newborn snowsuits could pose a choking hazard; this pre-lit artificial pine tree with white lights could pose a fire hazard; this concentrated cleaner has a child-resistant cap that may not function as required; this fabric book could pose a choking hazard for small children; this bedside fire alarm and clock could fail to operate and fully alert consumers to a fire; these wooden toy planes in red and blue could pose a choking hazard to young children; these fish fryers could pose a burn hazard; these baby girls' running shoes have a hook and loop fastener that may detach and could pose a choking hazard for young children; this propane conversion kit could pose a risk of exposure to carbon monoxide. 
 Marketplace wants to hear from you. 
 We want to hear about your experience with short-term rental platforms like Airbnb as a guest, host or neighbour. Email us at marketplace@cbc.ca. While we know these platforms are international, we are focusing only on Canadian stories right now. 
 . 
 It's shopping season and we need your help. We're on the hunt for Canada's worst sale! Ever spotted a sale price higher than the original price? Items on sale all out of stock? Does the company use their pricing to make you believe you're getting a better deal than you actually are? We want to hear about it! Send us your story at marketplace@cbc.ca.