Tesla posted a fun little video to its Twitter feed Thursday in which a Model 3 shows off by taking “snow laps” in real snow. The good stuff as in the snowy Quebec countryside or a Norwegian village. “The best sleigh this Christmas!” was the response of one jolly viewer. The 17-second spot says much about the esprit of the vehicle as it continues on its conquering-the-world course. Yes, the critics and skeptics weighed in too. But I tilt toward the Larry Ellison appraisal of Elon Musk (”This guy is landing rockets....Who else is landing rockets?”) and away from the naysayers. 
 Elon Musk says the system, simply called ‘loop,’ is a first step toward developing a high-speed network underground to eliminate traffic congestion. ( Robyn Beck/Bloomberg News / Robyn Beck/Bloomberg News ). 
 Until maybe now. In conducting what it called a “thorough, expansive process in searching for its new independent directors,” Tesla has named Kathleen Wilson-Thompson, an EVP at Walgreens, to its board of directors, and also Ellison, the billionaire co-founder of the California tech giant Oracle, where he remains executive chairman and chief technology officer. The appointments are meant to satisfy another piece of Tesla’s September settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Musk’s tweet the previous month that he had secured financing to take Tesla private at $420 (U.S.) a share drew a securities fraud charge from the commission and a subsequent settlement that included financial penalties for Tesla and Musk at $20 million apiece. Musk was ordered to step down as chair, to be replaced by an independent chairperson. In early November the company announced that Robyn Denholm, chief financial officer of the Australian telecom Telstra, would take on those duties. 
 Article Continued Below. 
 Governance lassitude was quickly on display in mid-December when Musk again took to Twitter with this: “’Chairman’ is an honorific, not executive role, which means it’s not needed to run Tesla. Will retire that title at Tesla in 3 years.” By “honorific” I presume Musk means a title without a function, forgetting the SEC’s own guidelines, not to mention broad thinking on robust corporate governance. By “independent” the probing person means independence of mind, and therefore a director (or chair) whose judgment will not be impaired by his or her relationship with the CEO. Musk’s pronounced belief in the superfluity of the function certainly seems to relegate Ms. Denholm to lame duck status, and threatens to erase the essential good-governance responsibility of an effective chair. And then there’s Mr. Ellison. Last October, the tech wizard/gazillionaire/yachtsman was comfortably seated at a meeting for analysts at the company’s annual Open World convention. A question about Oracle triggered a digression into a criticism of the media’s treatment of Musk, how he and Musk had had dinner at the Tesla gigafactory (the devoted Musk slept there that night), how stunned he was by the car manufacturer and how the Model 3 was the Number 1 selling car by revenue in the U.S. “Forget about Ford and GM,” Ellison said. And here was the big reveal: “My second largest investment, I will disclose it now. I’m not sure people know, I’m very close friends with Elon Musk and I’m a big believer in Tesla.”. 
 Is Ellison related to Musk? No. Is either executive beholden to the other as a result of business deals? Not that we know of. But then again, consider Ellison’s Sensei project, a company aiming to “help people live longer, brighter lives.” The wellness initiative is centred on the Hawaiian island of Lanai, which Ellison owns, and will include resort stays and hydroponic farms. According to the Sensei website, the agriculture projects will be solar powered by Tesla. That may seem a corporate relationship of minor significance. But Ellison’s professed adulation of Musk hardly introduces that steely-eyed, aerial view of corporate affairs that surely the SEC hoped to see as a result of its settling of charges against the company. What the commission described as a “package of remedies and relief” were designed “to address the misconduct at issue by strengthening Tesla’s corporate governance and oversight in order to protect investors.” The refreshed board is supposed to drive reforms. Yet aside from Musk’s brother, Kimbal, the entire slate of Tesla directors were deemed “independent” before Ellison and Wilson-Thompson arrived and on its face that hasn’t done the company much good. 
 Article Continued Below. 
 And then there’s the issue of Musk’s personal communications, which the SEC wants to see brought under control. In other words, he gets to continue with his personal riffs (”Anxiety is a scalar, fear is a vector”) but resist announcing a transaction with the Saudis when deal terms have not even been set. Tesla’s stock price rose six per cent on the day of Musk’s August tweet about having that go-private funding lined up. Going private would, of course, get the SEC off Musk’s back, and maybe that remains the long-term game plan. In its multipart settlement the commission must have been satisfied that it had shown the entrepreneur who’s the boss. Surely the commission now realizes that it’s been had. 
 Read more about: