It’s news to few that we should be eating more foods from the plant kingdom: vegetables, fruits, legumes, nuts, seeds and whole grains are the cornerstone of diets that reduce chronic disease and increase longevity. These foods are rich in health-promoting fibre, phytonutrients, vitamins and minerals, and nearly devoid of saturated fat. At this time of year, many of us will commit to eating a little better, incorporating more of these foods into our diets, perhaps not for the first time or for the last. We’re not alone in finding eating advice hard to follow, and not through any particular moral failing on our part. 
 The federal government should use policy tools to encourage Canadians to eat a more healthful diet based more on plants, Anna Pippus writes. ( Dreamstime ). 
 As much as we like to think of what we eat as being the result of our personal choices, the reality is that we’re subtly influenced by food industry marketing and lobbying that, together, create a food environment that works against public health. That’s a key reason why, according to government data, 70 per cent of Canadians eat unhealthfully, which is a leading risk factor for chronic disease and early death. Health Canada eating guidelines, currently under revision, seem to be going in the right direction, making it clearer that we need to include plant-based sources of protein and healthy unsaturated fats in our diets, and recognizing that our food environment is complex, requiring not only willpower, but also knowledge and skills to navigate. Even so, eating better is not simply a matter of pointing to federal eating guidelines, crossing our fingers and hoping that eventually all Canadians will come up with the skills and resources to follow them. 
 Article Continued Below. 
 Public health alone would be reason enough to make how we eat a major policy focus, but there’s more: predominantly plant-based eating patterns also happen to be most sustainable. Predictably, growing plant foods to feed to livestock is less efficient than growing plant foods to eat directly. According to the United Nations, animal farming is a leading contributor to greenhouse gas emissions, land usage and deforestation, water usage and pollution, and biodiversity loss. And recent research published in the journal Nature found that a global shift toward more plant-based eating could reduce greenhouse gas emissions by more than half by 2050, playing an essential role in avoiding climate breakdown. Canada’s Food Price Report forecasts that in 2019 the price of vegetables will rise by 4 to 6 per cent, largely as a result of changing weather patterns caused by climate change. In other words, the foods we should be eating more of to avoid climate change are projected to become less affordable largely thanks to climate change. Public health and environmental researchers have for years been saying that governments need to use policy tools to help shift our attitudes and behaviours around how we eat. Yet, fearing public backlash, governments fail to spearhead policy interventions to decisively promote healthy, sustainable diets, in turn feeding the incorrect perception that how we eat isn’t a big deal. Environment and Climate Change Canada, for its part, dramatically downplays the role of diet in climate change. In its ongoing Federal Sustainable Development Strategy, for example, the ministry suggests euphemistically that Canadians “use available resources to make educated decisions in choosing food.” Which resources? Which foods?. 
 Given the mounting evidence of the role plant foods can play in mitigating both public health and climate crises, the federal government ought to demonstrate leadership in implementing policy interventions to nudge Canadian towards diets rich in plant foods. We already use policy tools — such as awareness-raising, labelling, taxes, and subsidies — to manage other behaviours with social consequences, from water usage to smoking, and to help pay for externalized costs. Similarly, it would benefit all Canadians for us to be aided in our efforts to make better food choices. 
 Article Continued Below. 
 Healthy, sustainable diets shouldn’t be reserved only for those who have the time, ability and determination to navigate confusing information and a predatory food environment to select and prepare healthy foods. Good food choices should be the easy food choices. Anna Pippus is a lawyer specializing in farmed animal and plant-based food law, policy, communications and advocacy. She serves as a senior director at Animal Justice. 
 Read more about: