Home bakers will know Dorie Greenspan as the undisputed authority on cookies but in her latest cookbook, which marks her 13th, she is highlighting the weeknight savoury recipes that she cooks at home. Her new cookbook, Everyday Dorie ($50, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt) is a welcome addition to the days when a simple and hearty dish is what the body is craving. “I cook simple food and I don’t fuss about the finishing touches that much,” says Greenspan while visiting The Star’s test kitchen with her husband Michael Greenspan. “I think ingredients are beautiful themselves and this is how I’ve been cooking in the last decade. It’s about seeing the ingredients you already stocked your fridge with and saving a trip to the supermarket.”. 
 American cookbook author Dorie Greenspan visited the Star's test kitchen and made a turkey meatball soup with the Star's Karon Liu from a recipe in her book Everyday Dorie. ( Richard Lautens / Toronto Star ) The meatballs in this soup also go well in pastas, stews, bean dishes, as a main with a side of vegetables or sliced up and served in a baguette like a banh mi. ( Richard Lautens / Toronto Star ). 
 Even though Greenspan has co-authored books with renowned French chefs such as Daniel Boulud and master chocolatier Pierre Herme, as well as the legendary Julia Child, she maintains that she’s always been more of a home cook, one that burned down her home kitchen as a kid. “It’s an old story, but I burned down my parents’ kitchen at 12,” Greenspan says while rolling up her sleeves to make gingered-turkey meatballs. “I was making frozen french fries and instead of using the oven, I used a pot of oil. I thought that if water boiled faster with a lid, so would oil. The fire went up and burned the cabinets and the ceiling. It wasn’t something you could put out with baking soda.” It wasn’t exactly the catalyst Greenspan wanted to get her active in the kitchen, but she says she didn’t come from much of a cooking family: she notes that her mom uses the oven and microwave more as extra storage space. In college she pursued a doctorate in gerontology, the study of aging, before she got married after meeting her husband while working at a card shop. 
 Article Continued Below. 
 “I walked into the store because I needed cards for school and I met this sassy woman,” says Michael. “I didn’t buy anything but I knew I had to go back and see her. I was an engineer and a nerd. I didn’t even ask for her name when I was in there the first time.” After the they had their son Joshua in 1979, Greenspan didn’t want to go back to graduate school and developed an interest in baking. In the early ’80s, through a friend of a friend, she got a job as a pastry apprentice at the Soho Charcuterie in New York making chocolate chip cookies and the restaurant’s signature cake. She lasted a month. “One day I changed the cake recipe and got fired for ‘creative insubordination,’” says Greenspan, rolling the ground meat into golf balls and putting them into a pot of simmering broth. “It was a chocolate cake with almonds, raisins and whisky. I made it with pecans, prunes and Armagnac. I was bored and I’d been making the same thing every day; I was not made to be in a professional kitchen. But when I was fired, they admitted the cake was delicious.” The cake can be found in Greenspan’s Baking From My Home To Yours book where the recipe is literally called The Cake That Got Me Fired. Not suited for the restaurant kitchen, Greenspan pursued food and recipe writing in a way that only could have worked in decades past, or a mid-2000s rom-com about magazine publishing. “I was introduced to someone who worked in the test kitchen of Food And Wine magazine and was asked to write a proposal for a column,” she says, describing how she got the attention of the magazine’s editors. “Instead I just made everything that I thought would be good and brought it to their office. This was in the ’80s when there weren’t a lot of people who wanted to do this and working in food wasn’t seen as glamorous. People nowadays would probably send in pictures of their cooking rather than bring dishes to the offices.” She also started to get work from Elle magazine when the French-based publication launched an American edition in the mid-’80s, translating recipes from French into English and interviewing French chefs (she learned how to speak French from their son’s au pair). She wrote her first cookbook in 1991, then in the late ’90s she became a food columnist for Bon App tit for eight years, the Washington Post for two years and in the past two years, for New York Times Magazine. 
 Article Continued Below. 
 In addition to her own books, Greenspan also co-wrote cookbooks with big-name chefs. “They were all chefs and I made them accessible for home cooks,” she says. “I loved doing that.” Greenspan also co-wrote Baking With Julia, the companion cookbook to Julia Child’s ’90s baking show on PBS. Greenspan’s name could be seen on speed dial on Child’s phone, which is immortalized as part of Child’s kitchen on display at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of American History in Washington, D.C. “I love doing this work and I never stop thinking how lucky I am to be able to do it,” she says, ladling herself a bowl of cooked meatballs. “When I write a book or a recipe that I send out to the world, I want to encourage someone to make it, enjoy the process, and have the satisfaction of having something that they can say they’ve made.” Gingered-Turkey Meatball Soup These herbal and citrusy turkey meatballs are really easy to make and can be frozen for up to two months. Greenspan says they also go well in pastas, stews, bean dishes, as a main with a side of vegetables or sliced up and served in a baguette like a banh mi. For the meatballs 1 large egg 1/4 cup (60 ml) plain Greek yogurt 1/2 cup (125 ml) finely chopped onion, patted dry 1/2 cup (125 ml) freshly chopped cilantro, basil or a mix 1/2 cup (125 ml) unseasoned dry bread crumbs 2 finely minced garlic cloves 1 tsp (5 ml) peeled and grated fresh ginger Zest of 1 lemon 1 tsp (5 ml) kosher salt 1/2 tsp (2 ml) black pepper 1 lb (454 g) ground turkey 2L plus 2 cups (4500 ml) no salt-added chicken broth In a large mixing bowl, beat egg with a fork. Add all ingredients except ground turkey and broth. Using hands, mix all ingredients until well combined. Add turkey and mix with hands until blended. Using hands, form golf ball-sized meatballs (about 36g each). Place on a plate until ready to use, cover with a paper towel and refrigerate until next day, or freeze for up to 2 months. To cook meatballs, bring broth to a boil in a large saucepan or a medium-sized pot over medium-high heat. In batches, drop in meatballs and cook for 8 minutes, or until meatballs float to surface of broth. Remove cooked meatballs with a slotted spoon and set aside. Reserve broth for making soup. Makes about 24 meatballs. For the soup 1/2 lb (227 g) rice noodles, sticks or straight-cut 4 cups (600 g) chopped, sliced or shredded mushrooms/vegetables such as carrots, napa cabbage, onions, snow peas, kale and spinach Kosher salt and black pepper, to taste 1/3 cup (80 ml) chopped fresh herbs such as cilantro, basil, parsley or mint Soy sauce, sesame oil, chili sauce, for serving Bring a large pot of water to a boil over medium-high heat. Cook noodles until tender, about 4 minutes. Drain and rinse under cold water. Set aside. Bring broth from cooking meatballs to a boil over medium-high heat. Add vegetables and cook until tender, about 4 minutes. Add noodles. Stir. Add cooked meatballs. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Divide noodles, vegetables, meatballs and broth evenly into serving bowls. Season with chopped herbs and condiments, if using. Makes 4 to 6 servings. Karon Liu is the Star's food writer and is based in Toronto. Follow him on Twitter: @karonliu