Tiger Woods will begin his 2019 PGA Tour run next week at Torrey Pines in the Farmers Insurance Open. Woods has won on the San Diego course eight times, including seven Farmers titles and the 2008 U.S. Open. 
 Where will Tiger win in 2019?. 
 We can’t predict the future, but we can make an educated guess. 
 Here’s a look at 10 spots on the 2019 PGA Tour calendar where Woods, an 80-time PGA Tour winner, is most likely to add to his title total:. 
 (Note: We are only looking at events Woods is likely to play in. A return to the Valspar Championship, where he finished T-2 this year, appears unlikely and thus does not qualify for the list.). 
 The Masters. 
 Woods has won at the Masters four times and has contended several other years at the tournament at Augusta National. He had a lackluster T-32 here in 2018, but that was his first major in three years and that result is an anomaly compared to his norm at Augusta. 
 PGA Championship. 
 This year’s PGA Championship, which will now take place in May, goes to Bethpage Black. That’s the course where Woods won his eighth major championship (the 2002 U.S. Open). Seven years later, Woods didn’t play particularly well but still finished T-6 in that U.S. Open at Bethpage. A small sample size, but clearly Woods thrives at this layout. 
 Farmers Insurance Open. 
 Woods has eight professional wins (including a U.S. Open title) at Torrey Pines, the host site of the Farmers Insurance Open. He hasn’t had much of a good record here in the last few years, but those previous wins speak volumes to how much he loves this layout when he’s firing. 
 Wells Fargo Championship. 
 Quail Hollow, the host of the Wells Fargo Championship, seems to be one of Woods’ more comfortable courses. He won this tournament at this layout in 2007 and boasts a pair of other top 5s. He could only muster a T-55 here in 2018. But don’t be surprised if he improves on that mightily in 2019. 
 The Northern Trust. 
 Liberty National will host this event in 2019, marking the first time in 6 years and third overall it will do so. Woods’ finishes at this course in the 2009 and ’13 renditions of this event? It was T-2 both times. Something clicks at this course for Woods. He’ll need to finish top 125 in the FedEx Cup standings at the end of the regular season to qualify for this playoffs opener, but we don’t envision that being a problem. 
 Tour Championship. 
 This may be the diciest one. It’s never easy to qualify for this tournament at East Lake, with only 30 spots up for grabs. But if Woods is healthy, we like his chances to do so. His record at East Lake isn’t incredible, but the Woods standard is pretty high. The Woods resume at this course still includes two Tour Championship wins, including one this year that broke a five-year PGA Tour title drought. If Woods gets here in 2019, he will do so with good vibes from his 2018 performance. 
 Memorial Tournament. 
 Muirfield Village is absolutely one of Woods’ favorite courses, as he has five wins at this layout. Even his T-23 here in 2018 was eventful as he went on some crazy low runs but was held back by too many mistakes. Regardless, this is a layout where Woods knows how to win. 
 BMW Championship. 
 Speaking of layouts where Woods knows how to win, the BMW Championship will take place at Medinah Country Club’s No. 3 course in 2019. That track is where Woods won the 1999 and 2006 PGA Championships. Woods will need to be in the top 70 in the FedEx Cup standings heading into this week to qualify for this event. It’s a pretty safe bet he will do so, though. And assuming he does reach this tournament, it will be on an extremely favorable layout to his game. 
 U.S. Open. 
 The 2019 major season will be a big one for Woods. Not only is he fully into his comeback now rather than finding his footing again, but the haul of major sites is almost perfect. He gets Augusta as usual, Bethpage for the PGA (we explained his history at that layout above) and Pebble Beach for the U.S. Open. And Tiger at Pebble can be lethal. It’s a course where he posted his greatest performance (a 15-shot victory at the 2000 U.S. Open) and his greatest comeback (a win from seven back with seven to play at the 2000 AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am). Despite playing just OK for the majority of the 2010 U.S. Open at Pebble Beach, Woods still managed a T-4 that week. Woods could play the AT&T Pebble Beach Pro-Am here in 2019, but we’re not counting on it. He will play the U.S. Open assuming good health, though. And anything is possible for him at this layout. 
 Arnold Palmer Invitational. 
 Woods simply owns Bay Hill, as he has won the Arnold Palmer Invitational at this layout eight times. He nearly made it a ninth in 2018 as he was just a shot off the lead on the back nine Sunday. It would eventually be a tie for fifth, but that showing continued to prove that Woods is in love with this course. Now that Woods is fully into his comeback, it is quite easy to envision a ninth victory at this event coming in 2019.