Contrary to what you might think, brainy dance does not have to be boring. As proof, this week and next, Toronto Dance Theatre is presenting unabashedly experimental New York choreographer Jeanine Durning’s This Shape, We Are In, a work as intentionally challenging for audiences as for its dancers. The roughly hour-long work upends conventional expectations as it explores the very nature of performance and the dance-audience relationship. Fuelled by Durning’s curiosity about how we consider existence and being, a branch of philosophy known as ontology, This Shape, We Are In translates into a dance that is edgy, unpredictable and so alive and immediate that it is hard as an observer not to be drawn in. You simply can’t tell what might happen next. 
 Alana Elmer, Pulga Muchochoma and Mairi Greig perform in This Shape, We Are In. ( Omer K Yukseker / Contributed ). 
 Durning is no newcomer to TDT. In 2014 she acted as “outside eye” for Voyager, the TDT commission of her friend, Canadian choreographer Ame Henderson. During that visit Durning gave two performances of her critically acclaimed 2010 solo inging, a work that deploys a performance practice she calls nonstopping; in this instance non-stop speaking. TDT artistic director Christopher House was already familiar with Durning and her work, having first encountered her performing the choreography of renowned American post-modernist Deborah Hay, herself a huge influence on House. In 2016, he invited Durning to make a work for TDT as part of that year’s New York/Toronto Project, the most recent in a series of special programs in which pairs of choreographers from notable foreign dance centres — others have included Berlin, Paris and Brussels — spend an intensive creative period with the company. The result in Durning’s case was a 30-minute iteration of This Shape, We Are In involving five dancers. 
 Article Continued Below. 
 In line with his own fascination with how a creative dance troupe can relate to its past repertoire, exploring rather than merely repeating it, House decided to ask Durning to return to make an expanded version of the 2016 work. Apart from being twice as long, it now engages seven dancers. “I always felt it deserved to be longer,” says House. “It’s fascinating when you come back to an idea you started with and go deeper.” Durning did not need much coaxing. “I’m thankful for the invitation, for Christopher’s belief in the work and this chance to explore its possibilities.” She also welcomed the opportunity to re-engage with TDT’s dancers. 
 “They are truly remarkable. They have this very precise training combined with a genuine curiosity you don’t find in many repertory companies.” In revisiting her 2016 work, Durning says it’s helpful to be able to work from an existing structure and set of proposals — a “scaffold,” she calls it — but essentially she’s starting afresh. 
 Article Continued Below. 
 Three of Durning’s current cast danced in the 2016 This Shape, We Are In but, apart from a familiarity with her methodology, they are starting from scratch. “It’s a big challenge and it never gets any easier,” says Pulga Muchochoma, now in his 10th season with TDT. “It demands such a high level of concentration and it’s not designed for performers to have a particular part. We’re all equally responsible for everything.” Part of Durning’s objective is to guide the dancers toward a new understanding of what it is to be a performer existing in space and time, to strip away traditional artifice, to exist in the moment and to take improvisational risks. It’s a world apart from just doing the steps in the right order on the correct counts. It’s more akin to a baring of the soul. By the same token, Durning hopes audiences will be equally willing to enter into what can be an intense experience, abandoning conventional expectations and allowing themselves to become hyper-alert to everything happening before and around them. For Durning, dance is a shared experience. For someone long noted for her eagerness to explore new choreographic ground, Durning had what might seem a surprisingly conventional start. Born in New York City, the daughter of famed stage, screen and television actor and, in his day skilled hoofer, the late Charles Durning, her childhood was spent in a theatrical milieu. Inspired by the dance in movie musicals, she took tap and jazz from a young age; then ballet. Things got serious when she enrolled in the dance program at New York University, graduating in 1990 with a BFA. She performed with several American dance companies while developing her own interest as a choreographer in exploring ideas through movement. For some audiences, reared on the notion of dance as an entertaining diversion from reality, it’s hard to grasp how dance can have a philosophical dimension, engage the mind and provoke thought, as much intuitively as consciously. It takes more effort than sitting back and allowing the sensual pleasure of watching beautiful bodies moving to beautiful music wash over you, but the ultimate rewards are proportionately greater. As a footnote, for those hungry for a double dose of innovation, in tandem with Durning’s mainstage work, TDT is presenting choreographer/visual artist and TDT School-trained Marie Lambin-Gagnon’s performance installation Slow Dance. The 40-minute performance, ticketed separately, is billed as “a conversation between dancers, objects and environment, celebrating the intimacy and strength present in all things.” This Shape, We Are In is at the Winchester Street Theatre, 80 Winchester St., Jan. 24 to 27 and Jan. 30 to Feb. 2. See tdt.org or call 416-967-1365.