SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. – Phil Mickelson is set for his 30th career appearance at the Waste Management Phoenix Open this week at TPC Scottsdale. 
 Once he tees off at 2:15 p.m. ET Thursday, he’ll be using the same strategy that’s helped him test the social media waters in recent months – stay out of trouble. 
 Mickelson created a stir when unveiling his @PhilMickelson Twitter account, seemingly to help promote “The Match” against Tiger Woods in Las Vegas. 
 But Mickelson has kept the banter going with a familiar sly tone. 
 “I didn’t realize what a great way it was to engage, connect and interact with people,” Mickelson said. “It’s really been a fun experience for me and I’m glad I’m doing it.”. 
 There’s just one catch. 
 Mickelson admitted his tweets need to be approved before they go out, denying the really juicy stuff to the general public but keeping his image intact. 
 “I have to be careful,” Mickelson said. “I do have a buffer, if you will, because we all know I say and do things that sometimes are just stupid. So I have a buffer where I do all the stuff myself, send it to somebody, have it checked to make sure that there’s nothing in there that shouldn’t be.”. 
 Mickelson obviously isn’t alone in this practice, so at least he admits it. We’d just love to know which tweets and posts have been scraped along the way. 
 “It’s not like I just get on and send something,” Mickelson said. “I have to send it to somebody else, have two people check it just to make sure that I’m not making some of the mistakes that I made in the past as a way of trying to protect myself from the negative of it.”. 
 There shouldn’t be much negativity in Mickelson’s world this week. The Arizona State grad is beloved around TPC Scottsdale and thrives in the crazy environment. He’s coming off a surprising T-2 after the 54-hole lead got away from him at the Desert Classic as he ramps up for 2019, a year Mickelson thinks could be one of his best at age 48. 
 He already has 43 PGA Tour wins and essentially guaranteed he would get to 50 career victories with his comments after winning the 2018 WGC-Mexico Championship. 
 That led to another interesting revelation from Mickelson on Wednesday, when he said he might have gotten a little out over his skis. 
 “I really thought that after having won there, after playing three or four weeks heading into that tournament, that I was going to have a stellar end to the season,” Mickelson said. “That was a bit disappointing. I’ve got to be honest in my assessment of winning seven more times. Is that realistic? It’s certainly my goal and something I’m striving for, and yet I know it’s not going to be easy. So I don’t have the same, 100 percent (confidence), I’m going to do this thing. I’m a little more realistic because I really thought I was going to pick off two or three more at the end of the year and I played terribly.”. 
 That self-deprecating style is part of what endears Mickelson to so many fans in the first place, and it comes through often on his Twitter account. 
 It just has to go through a few handlers first.