What started with a fundraiser for an animal shelter resulted in an actual — and popular — shelter for canines: the eco-friendly Doggy Dreamhouse. Studio Schicketanz, in Carmel, Calif., decided a solar-powered dog house was the way to go to help out the SPCA, in Monterey County. The shelter’s third annual Carmel Canine Cottages Fundraiser, held last September, reached out to local architects with a request for designs. 
 The roof-top lookout is a favourite of Hugo, a four-year-old French bulldog who belongs to Carmel entrepreneur Marci Bracco Cain. ( Studio Schicketanz ) As well as fitting into the landscape, the Doggy Dreamouse features a recycled rubber floor, comfy for relaxing and easy to clean. ( Studio Schicketanz ) The grass-covered ramp puts four paws to work and the treat drawer is neatly contained on the side. ( Studio Schicketanz ) Lorena Paz Akin and Mai Lee designed the solar-powered doghouse. ( Studio Schicketanz ) The roof-top faucet is motion-activated and good for both quenching a thirst and watering the grass. ( Studio Schicketanz ) The small side window allows ventilation and a view of the side yard. ( Studio Schicketanz ) The designers’ plans point out the features and inner workings of the eco-friendly home. ( Studio Schicketanz ). 
 The Doggy Dreamhouse turned out to be so popular, Studio Schickentanz has been getting orders ever since. One of the reasons is that its mid-century modern style, with comfortable interior design, also offers a grass-covered perch on the second level. It’s a perfect, upper-storey spot to keep an eye on squirrels and cats and is accessible by a grass-covered walkway. Mary Ann Schicketanz, principal architect at the firm, explains that comfort for the tail-wagging resident and the use of environmentally-friendly materials were the two prime goals. 
 Article Continued Below. 
 “The inside of the dog house is lined with resilient recycled rubber. This material is commonly used on playgrounds, very comfortable to lie on and easy to clean,” says Schicketanz. “We also installed a fan, which is run by a solar panel, to get some air flow on hot days.” Measuring three-by-four feet, and three feet tall, the exterior of the home is built with wood framing and cedar siding. Solar panels are located on the grass roof, directly above the fan. The roof comprises several layers. From the top down, there’s grass, chicken-wire mesh, gardening fabric, dirt, and waterproofing material. The house also has a motion-activated faucet for doggie hydration and green roof irrigation. The faucet works on a sensor similar to those in public bathrooms. A doggie drawer on the side of the home is designed to accommodate treats and toys. “We had never designed a dog house, but we wanted to provide a good experience not only for the owner, but also for the animal,” says architect Lorena Paz Akin, who created the home with colleague Mai Lee. 
 “The active front panel, interior material and internal drain provide ease in cleaning the interior of the dog house,” says Paz Akin. “During the design we tried to reflect our studio’s motto ... being mindful to functionality and constructability details. During construction, we really fought to keep the smooth transition and integration of the green ramps to the adjacent landscape. We did not want a step in either location,” she adds. 
 Article Continued Below. 
 Once the design was perfect, the Doggy Dreamhouse was constructed by Lewis Builders Design Build, in Carmel. currently, it can be ordered and trucked to a location for the stiff price of $10,000 U.S. (about $13,300 Canadian). Long-distance shipping is not offered, because of its size. However, Schicketanz says that interested buyers can purchase the plans from the company for a donation to a local SPCA of $500. https://www.spcamc.org/cottages/ Georgie Binks is a Toronto-based writer and a freelance contributor for the Star. Reach her at binksgeorgie@gmail.com